style: apply /style-guide pass to models/artifacts (#2717)
wandb/docs: models/artifacts/construct-an-artifact.mdx

---

This page shows you how to create a W&B artifact, add content to it, and save it so that you can version and share datasets, models, and other files across your machine learning workflows.

Use the W&B Python SDK to construct artifacts from [W&B Runs](/models/ref/python/experiments/run). You can add [files, directories, URIs, and files from parallel runs to artifacts](#add-files-to-an-artifact). After you add a file to an artifact, save the artifact to the W&B Server or [your own private server](/platform/hosting/hosting-options/self-managed). Each artifact is associated with a run.

For information on how to track external files, such as files stored in Amazon S3, see the [Track external files](./track-external-files) page.

## Construct an artifact

Construct a [W&B artifact](/models/ref/python/experiments/artifact) in three steps:

1. [Create an artifact Python object with `wandb.Artifact()`](/models/artifacts/construct-an-artifact#1-create-an-artifact-python-object-with-wandb-artifact)
2. [Add one or more files to the artifact](/models/artifacts/construct-an-artifact#2-add-one-or-more-files-to-the-artifact)

> 3. [Save your artifact to the W&B server](/models/artifacts/construct-an-artifact#3-save-your-artifact-to-the-w&b-server)

Author: Fixed in ab697507c — the anchor is now `#3-save-your-artifact-to-the-wb-server`, which is the slug Mintlify generates from the heading and the form already used in `ttl.mdx` and the localized (ja/ko/fr) pages.

---
description: Create and log a W&B artifact. Learn how to add one or more files or a URI reference to an artifact.
title: Create an artifact
---

This page shows you how to create a W&B artifact, add content to it, and save it so that you can version and share datasets, models, and other files across your machine learning workflows.

> Use the W&B Python SDK to construct artifacts from [W&B Runs](/models/ref/python/experiments/run). You can add [files, directories, URIs, and files from parallel runs to artifacts](#add-files-to-an-artifact). After you add a file to an artifact, save the artifact to the W&B Server or [your own private server](/platform/hosting/hosting-options/self-managed). Each artifact is associated with a run.

Reviewer: Should we hide the description if we are adding this additional line? 

The description + this added intro + the original content seems redundant, too wordy.

Author: Removed the added intro line, so the page leads with the existing "Use the W&B Python SDK …" sentence and is no longer redundant with the description.

_🤖 Addressed by [Claude Code](https://claude.com/claude-code)_

For information on how to track external files, such as files stored in Amazon S3, see the [Track external files](./track-external-files) page.

## Construct an artifact

Construct a [W&B artifact](/models/ref/python/experiments/artifact) in three steps:

1. [Create an artifact Python object with `wandb.Artifact()`](/models/artifacts/construct-an-artifact#create-an-artifact-python-object-with-wandb-artifact)
2. [Add one or more files to the artifact](/models/artifacts/construct-an-artifact#add-one-or-more-files-to-the-artifact)

> 3. [Save your artifact to the W&B server](/models/artifacts/construct-an-artifact#save-your-artifact-to-the-wb-server)

Reviewer: This link doesn't work.

Author: Fixed. Mintlify's generated heading id keeps the ampersand, so the working anchor is `#save-your-artifact-to-the-w&b-server` (verified against the live preview heading id). Fixed the same cross-reference in ttl.mdx too.

_🤖 Addressed by [Claude Code](https://claude.com/claude-code)_

Initialize the [`wandb.Artifact()`](/models/ref/python/experiments/artifact) class to create an artifact object. Specify the following parameters:

* **Name**: The name of your artifact. The name should be unique, descriptive, and memorable.
* **Type**: The type of artifact. The type should be short, descriptive, and correspond to a single step of your machine learning pipeline. Common artifact types include `'dataset'` or `'model'`.

<Note>
W&B uses the `name` and `type` you provide to create a directed acyclic graph in the W&B App. See the [Explore and traverse artifact graphs](./explore-and-traverse-an-artifact-graph) for more information.
</Note>

<Warning>
Artifacts can't have the same name, regardless of type. In other words, you can't create an artifact named `cats` of type `dataset` and another artifact with the same name of type `model`.
</Warning>

You can optionally provide a description and metadata when you initialize an artifact object. For more information about available attributes and parameters, see the [`wandb.Artifact`](/models/ref/python/experiments/artifact) class definition in the Python SDK Reference Guide.

> Copy and paste the following code snippet to create an artifact object. Replace the `[NAME]` and `[TYPE]` placeholders with your own values:

Reviewer: Don't suggest using square brackets. That'll make it look like you need to replace it with a list. The reason I used brackets is because it is not a Python type. All caps are generally used for environment variables or global variables so I'd suggest not using that, too.

(This applies to all)

```suggestion
Copy and paste the following code snippet to create an artifact object. Replace the `<name>` and `<type>` placeholders with your own values:
```

Author: Reverted to `<name>`/`<type>` here and swept all square-bracket / ALL-CAPS placeholders back to angle-bracket lowercase across every artifacts page (86 tokens in 8 files).

_🤖 Addressed by [Claude Code](https://claude.com/claude-code)_

Initialize the [`wandb.Artifact()`](/models/ref/python/experiments/artifact) class to create an artifact object. Specify the following parameters:

* **Name**: The name of your artifact. The name should be unique, descriptive, and memorable.
* **Type**: The type of artifact. The type should be short, descriptive, and correspond to a single step of your machine learning pipeline. Common artifact types include `'dataset'` or `'model'`.

<Note>

> W&B uses the `name` and `type` you provide to create a directed acyclic graph in the W&B App. See the [Explore and traverse artifact graphs](./explore-and-traverse-an-artifact-graph) for more information.

Reviewer 2: Consider demoting this one to avoid note stacking

Author: Demoted the DAG note to plain body text so it no longer stacks with the following Warning.

_🤖 Addressed by [Claude Code](https://claude.com/claude-code)_

artifact.add_dir(local_path="path/to/directory", name="<name>")
```

> See the next section, [Add files to an artifact](/models/artifacts/construct-an-artifact#add-files-to-an-artifact), for more information about how to add different file types to an artifact.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See [Add files to an artifact](/models/artifacts/construct-an-artifact#add-files-to-an-artifact), for more information about adding different file types to an artifact.
```

Author: Applied your suggestion.

_🤖 Addressed by [Claude Code](https://claude.com/claude-code)_

        run.log_artifact(a)
```

The artifact version **v0** is not guaranteed to have an index of 0 in its metadata because W&B might log artifacts in an arbitrary order.
</Warning>

## Add files to an artifact

> After you create an artifact object, populate it with the content you want to track. The following sections show how to add different types of objects to an artifact. Assume you have a directory with the following structure as you read through the examples:

Reviewer: Again, what is added means nothing. "populate" is informal and not informative. The title of the section already describes what is happening. 

```suggestion
The following sections show how to add different types of objects to an artifact. Assume you have a directory with the following structure as you read through the examples:
```

Author: Applied — removed the "populate" sentence so the section opens with your suggested wording.

_🤖 Addressed by [Claude Code](https://claude.com/claude-code)_

import wandb

# Initialize an artifact object
artifact = wandb.Artifact(name="[NAME]", type="[TYPE]")

# Add a local directory to the artifact
artifact.add_dir(local_path="path/to/directory", name="optional-prefix")
```

The following table shows how different API calls produce different artifact contents:

| API call                                    | Resulting artifact                                     |
| ------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| `artifact.add_dir('images')`                | <p><code>cat.png</code></p><p><code>dog.png</code></p> |
| `artifact.add_dir('images', name='images')` | <p><code>images/cat.png</code></p><p><code>images/dog.png</code></p> |

### Add a URI reference

Use a URI reference when you want an artifact to point to content stored outside of W&B, such as in an object store, without copying the underlying bytes. Artifacts track checksums and other information for reproducibility if the URI has a scheme that the W&B library supports.

> Add an external URI reference to an artifact with the [`wandb.Artifact.add_reference()`](/models/ref/python/experiments/artifact#method-artifact-add-reference) method. Replace the `'uri'` string with your own URI. Optionally pass the desired path within the artifact for the name parameter.

Reviewer: The added content is not cohesive with the following sentence. I'd combine the "Use a URI..." with "Add an external.." together to make this less wordy.

Author: Combined the "Use a URI…" and "Add an external…" sentences into one less-wordy paragraph.

_🤖 Addressed by [Claude Code](https://claude.com/claude-code)_

import wandb

# Initialize an artifact object
artifact = wandb.Artifact(name="[NAME]", type="[TYPE]")

# Add a local directory to the artifact
artifact.add_dir(local_path="path/file.format", name="optional-prefix")

> ```

Author: Fixed in ab697507c — the `add_dir` example now uses a directory path (`local_path="path/to/directory"`), consistent with the step-2 snippet earlier on the page.
